---
layout: post
title:  "Roundup"
date:   2014-06-17 21:00:00
categories: roundup
---

It's been a couple of weeks, so just a quick roundup of the stuff I've been up to/discovering:

### AngularJS

I've spent a bit of time with <a  href="https://angularjs.org/">AngularJS</a>. In a nutshell, AngularJS is a JavaScript 
framework that provides some cool stuff including:
 
**Two-way binding between the view and models**
 
This means that when values change in your models, parts of the view that rely on that value update automatically. 
Likewise, when the view changes those values, the model updates right away, so there's no need to write a load of code
to do all that for you.

**Services**

Service provide a way to encapsulate businessy stuff in your application that can then be called from anywhere within 
it. Services may make calls to actual REST services to get data, or perform processing in their own right.

**Directives**

I really love directives in AngularJS. They allow you to bundle up a whole bunch of HTML with data bindings into single 
tag that AngularJS then substitutes at runtime. I find this to be quite an exciting possibility because it perhaps means 
we can finally get to the point where a specialist designer can write page layouts and developers can write code to
drive them with greater separation.
 
I followed along with a 
<a href="http://pluralsight.com/training/Courses/TableOfContents/angularjs-fundamentals">Pluralsight course</a> on 
AngularJS that was pretty cool, although I did find the pace of the snippets being pasted on-screen a bit fast in the 
middle 3-4 modules.

### Bootstrap

I've been pretty much blown away by <a href="http://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a>, a CSS/JavaScript framework for 
making accessible/responsive/good-looking web pages. Just including it on a new web page with a few bits of text on it
makes it change to something a bit prettier than the standard browser stylesheet. Getting effects like drop-down menus
and image carousels is just a few &lt;div tags away. I've also been staggered by how easy it is using Bootstrap and its
responsive design stylesheet to make sites that look good on any screen size. I've started incorporating it a little 
bit into the web front-end of <a href="https://github.com/jeroanan/Aquarius">Aquarius</a> for a simple but slick kind 
of user experience.

Since picking up Bootstrap I've noticed that I see several websites every day that clearly use it, and have that 
distinct layout with a menubar, followed by a jumbotron and then the main content. I think care should be taken so that
when using Bootstrap, your page isn't just another one of those cookie cutter sites. 

I watched a <a href="http://pluralsight.com/training/Courses/TableOfContents/bootstrap-introduction">Pluralsight</a>
course on Bootstrap as well. It was a good course and well delivered but some things in Bootstrap have changed or been
removed altogether since it was made. For example, the jumbotron used to be called a hero unit, which left me searching
the web to find out why my hero widget wasn't being made very big. Still, a nice showcase of what Bootstrap is capable 
of.

### Jetbrains Webstorm

Disclaimer: I'm a bit of a <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com">Jetbrains</a> fanboy and have been using their tools for 
several years. I got using <a href="http://www.jetbrains.com/webstorm/">Webstorm</a> when I saw it was the tool being
taught with in the above Pluralsight course on AngularJS, and have since used it for working with Bootstrap, this blog
and some CoffeeScript. It recognises a tonne of different web languages and  gives me all the rich functionality I've
grown used to from Jetbrains IDEs. I like it so much I've purchased a licence.
  
In short: I've been trying to direct a lot of my study over the last couple of weeks towards the web in general and
JavaScript in particular. I think JavaScript is the next big thing if it isn't already and I will be continuing to try
to become awesome at it.