---
layout: post
title:  "What should I code?"
date:   2014-02-09 11:14:00
categories: Aquarius, python, opensource
---

Speaking to a lot of friends and colleagues who don't do much coding in their spare time, I hear the same kind of thing all the time: "I would, but I don't know what to code." I was in this situation too, and it took me several years to work it out.

When I graduated from university, I had high hopes. "I'll work for a company all day and work on open source all night," I thought. It didn't happen like that. In fact I didn't code anything in my spare time for years after. Until one morning when I woke up and thought "I want my love of coding back".

The first question I asked myself was "what am I interested in other than coding?" My big spare time activity since graduating from university had always been reading. You can see how much time I spent reading over at my <a href="https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/13603481-david-wilson">Goodreads</a> profile. I have a large collection of ebook files in various formats and usually read them using Moon+ Reader on my Nexus 7. I had recently taken delivery of a Raspberry Pi, so I thought it would be cool to write a lightweight server that I can put on the Pi to manage my collection using either a normal web front-end or the OPDS protocol, which Moon+ can handle.

I began writing the first incarnation of Aquarius. Within a couple of hours I'd made a tonne of commits and was getting all kinds of great things working. Looking back now I wonder how I went for so many years of doing basically nothing other than my 9-5 job. I guess that when you're coding all day for your job and you have a partner/family at home it's easy to fall into seeing coding as something you just do for work. Once you're in that mindset, it's really tough to get out of it.

Five months on, I feel like a reborn developer. My self-confidence in my skills, and in general, has skyrocketed. I feel engaged and interested in coding again where I only felt apathy before. I've even begun this blog!

And it all began by finally answering that question: "What should I code?"
